[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: The last thing to kinda
hit on here is this section over here,
so I'm gonna minimize these.
A lot of this is brand new,
just released, I think, at Google I/O.
But the important one that's always been
there is, what is the main thread doing?
So with JavaScript,
you're single threaded.
And so it's kinda cool and
important to be able to see what
work is going on on your website.
So this is gonna be very similar.
It's almost as though you took
this little pyramid thing and
just turned it on its side, basically.
So again, the x-axis is time.
And then the y-axis is just call stack.
So I think one mistake is, you don't
ever wanna care about a really tall one,
like this one over here.
See how it's really tall?
Again, I'm using Shift to scroll.
That doesn't matter,
cuz that's just like nested functions,
which are fine, that's how it works.
What you wanna look out for
are really fat ones.
Because those are the things
that take a really long time.
Some of which, again, are unavoidable.
So we see the biggest one is parsing HTML.
So there's nothing you can do about that,
right?
I mean, you could have less HTML maybe.
But most likely,
[LAUGH] there's a certain requirement.
You need to have that text and
those buttons and things like that, so
don't worry about it.
These Evaluate Scripts are just
the same as Parse HTML.
It's like parsing a JavaScript,
it's unavoidable.
If you include jQuery,
it has to parse jQuery, right?
That's how that works.
What you'd wanna watch out for
is, you'll start seeing your own
function names being really fat.
Or you see update user status is taking
500 milliseconds or something like that.
You're like, man, I wrote that function.
Why is it taking that long?
So again, the mile-high view is just
looking at your widest ones and
seeing what's taking so long.
And then what's cool with the call stack,
just kind of how you would view it is,
Evaluate Script is taking
a really long time.
But it's not the whole script,
there's something specific.
And so you can go down the call stack.
And the way I like to think about it is,
from the fat ones,
you wanna see where they'd very
suddenly stopped being fat, right?
So this one's huge,
this one's huge, this one's huge.
This one's less huge, but
I think it's worth checking out.
Cuz after this one, it's just like
these tiny, little blocks, right?
So if you've ever done anything
with a profiler that's like,
how long the function took and how long
everything under the function took.
Like cell first contained or
something like that, right?
It's not that the whole script
took a long time to evaluate.
It's specifically that this
anonymous function took a long time.
And then it's not just that, it's that.
It's not just that, it's that.
So what you're looking for
is where the dropoff is.
Like here,
runInContext took 21 milliseconds.
But then everything after it took 4,
1 ,1 ,0 ,0 ,0.
So we don't really care
about those little ones.
We wanna see the last really wide one.
That's how we're gonna kinda profile that.
Does that make sense, everybody?
Okay, it's a little bit confusing,
but that's just kind of a rule.
That's just how I look at it.
I'm like, okay, I wanna drill down
until there's the last wide one and
then investigate it.
So if we wanted to see, we parse the HTML.
And then we're evaluating lodash,
which is cool.
This is a compiling script,
we can't really do anything about that.
And then the code that we could look at
starts with this anonymous function and
goes down eventually to this runInContext.
When you click on something here,
you'll start seeing information about
it here, like what kind it is, right?
So if you click on a purple one.
Come on, Parse HTML.
I guess that is it, okay.
Compile Script, Evaluate Script,
all that kinda stuff.
So we'll see that this
runInContext is a JS Frame.
It took a long time.
And then we can kinda click into it,
if we wanted to go back into the Sources
tab now, it's gonna take a second,
and actually see the function.
So this is the relationship
you can start getting.
Keep in mind, in the last little section,
we talked about page audits, right?
And we talked about minifying and
concatenating CSS in your images and
all that.
Those are really big macro-optimizations,
really great things that all
websites should be doing.
When it comes to profiling your
JavaScript, that's a micro-optimization.
And so what you really wanna do is,
from back on the timeline,
you wanna look at the whole picture.
Because, let's see,
this anonymous function runInContext is
the biggest named function we can find.
But it took 21 milliseconds, which is not
a human eye perceivable amount of time.
So I probably don't need to,
I don't need to optimize JavaScript
performance on this site, right?
Because everything's
actually pretty small.
I'm showing you how to do it for
the sake of the class.
But you don't necessarily wanna like,
wow, that one function's really wide.
I need to fix it, or something like that.
That's not necessarily a healthy attitude,
because sometimes they're
just really fast.
It just happens to be the slowest
of your really fast site.
So I just wanted to point out to always
keep in mind that, once you get to this
screen, this is really micro-optimizations
and they're really relative.
So look at how long they take.
If it's taking half a second to
run a function, that's a problem.
You wanna look into it.
If it's taking, like in this case,
21 milliseconds, that's really fast.
I really don't need to look at that.
So yeah, just wanted to point that out.
Cool, so yeah, that was starting
to get used to the timeline tab.
A cool feature they just added,
very similar to the device emulator.
Where you can see what it would
look like on a mobile device.
You can now do CPU throttling.
So you can actually do,
with the Network tab,
you can throttle your
network conditions to 3G.
Then you come over to the Timeline tab and
throttle your CPU to what it's
like on a low-end device.
And you can start seeing
how long things take.
So again, maybe that would be a better.
Maybe if you were worried
about JavaScript performance,
you could throttle it
down to a low-end device.
And see how long these
things are really taking.
Are they taking three seconds for
something to run?
That's a problem.
Are they still kinda fast,
like in the one second range?
It's probably okay.